# @selfage/service_client

## Install

`npm install @selfage/service_client`

## Overview

Written in TypeScript and compiled to ES6 with inline source map & source. See [@selfage/tsconfig ](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@selfage/tsconfig) for full compiler options. Provides a type-safe client to call services described by `@selfage/service_descriptor` and handled by `@selfage/service_handler`. The service here only refers to one simple kind of client-server interaction: Sending a HTTP POST request in JSON as request body and receiving a response in JSON.

## Constructor

It's recommended to create and export a singleton instance of `ServiceClient`. The constructor takes an implementation of `SessionStorage` and a `fetch` function.

```TypeScript
import { ServiceClient } from '@selfage/service_client';
import { LocalSessionStorage } from '@selfage/service_client/local_session_storage';

export let client = new ServiceClient(new LocalSessionStorage(), window.fetch);
```

The above example is for browser environment because of `window.fetch` as well as `LocalSessionStorage` which implements `SessionStorage` interface using `window.localStorage`.

You can also inject implementations for Nodejs environment. In fact, our unit tests provide a mock implementation of `SessionStorage` and replace `window.fetch` with `node-fetch`. However, `window.fetch` and `node-fetch` have different function types in TypeScript, though they are effectively the same, and we have to cast `node-fetch` as `any`. 

```TypeScript
import { ServiceClient } from '@selfage/service_client';
import { SessionStorage } from '@selfage/service_client/session_storage';
import fetch = require('node-fetch');

let client = new ServiceClient(new class implements SessionStorage {/* ... */}, fetch as any);
```

## SessionStorage

To not confuse with `window.sessionStorage`, `SessionStorage` in this package is simply a TypeScript interface to store and retrieve a session string. See its [source](https://github.com/selfage/service_client/blob/9ffb717f194f98212d60d3034bd12bd0bafeddf8/session_storage.ts). If used on backend servers, you can also provide an implementation using in-memory maps, disks, or database.

As stated above, we provide a `LocalSessionStorage` implementation using `window.localStorage` as opposed to using cookie. Therefore the session string will not be sent with every request.

Read further for how it's used during authentication.

## Fetch services without authentication

`fetchUnauthed()` takes a request object as well as an `UnauthedServiceDescriptor` and returns a `Promise` of a response object. 

```TypeScript
import { GET_COMMENTS } from './get_comments';

async function run() {
  // Suppose we created a `ServiceClient`.
  let response = await client.fetchUnauthed({ videoId: "xBivT1" }, GET_COMMENTS);
}
```

`get_comments.ts`([source](https://github.com/selfage/service_client/blob/9ffb717f194f98212d60d3034bd12bd0bafeddf8/test_data/get_comments.ts)) is typically generated by installing `@selfage/cli` and runing `selfage gen get_comments`, which requires an input file `get_comments.json`([source](https://github.com/selfage/service_client/blob/9ffb717f194f98212d60d3034bd12bd0bafeddf8/test_data/get_comments.json)), specifying the url endpoint/path as `/get_comments`.

See `@selfage/service_descriptor` and `@selfage/message` for more explanation of the JSON file. Typically, `get_comments.json` and `get_comments.ts` will be shared between client-side and server-side code.

## Fetch services requiring authentication

`fetchAuthed()` takes a request object as well as an `AuthedServiceDescriptor` and returns a `Promise` of a response object.

```TypeScript
import { GET_HISTORY } from './get_history';

async function run() {
  // Suppose we created a `ServiceClient`.
  let response = await client.fetchAuthed({ page: 1 }, GET_HISTORY);
}
```

As also documented in `@selfage/service_descriptor`, an authed service requiring its request to contain `signedSession` field. See `get_history.ts`([soure](https://github.com/selfage/service_client/blob/9ffb717f194f98212d60d3034bd12bd0bafeddf8/test_data/get_history.ts)) and `get_history.json`([source](https://github.com/selfage/service_client/blob/9ffb717f194f98212d60d3034bd12bd0bafeddf8/test_data/get_history.ts)) as the example.

You don't need to explicitly set `signedSession` field. `ServiceClient` will set it with the session string by calling `read()` on `SessionStorage`.

## Origin

Every `AuthedServiceDescriptor` or `UnauthedServiceDescriptor` only specifies the path of the url that we are calling to. Thus you have to provide all the preceeding part of the path to `ServiceClient`, i.e. the origin of a URL. 

```TypeScript
// Suppose we created a `ServiceClient`.
client.origin = 'http://localhost:8080';
```

Its intended use case is to switch server addresses between PROD and DEV environments.

```TypeScript
// Suppose we created a `ServiceClient`.
declare let environment: string;
if (environment === 'PROD') {
  client.origin = 'https://www.my-domain.com';
} else if (environment === 'DEV') {
  client.origin = 'http://dev.my-domain.com'
} else if (environment === 'LOCAL') {
  client.origin = 'http://localhost:8080';
}
```

If the services you are calling to are distributed through multiple server addresses/domains, you can definitely instantiate multiple `ServiceClient`s as singletons, pointing to each server address.

## Catch errors

You can handle all kinds of errors for each service call using try-catch statement, including network connection errors which are thrown by injected `fetch` function, and server responded errors which are thrown by `ServiceClient` as `HttpError`.

```TypeScript
async function run() {
  try {
    // Suppose we created a `ServiceClient`.
    let response = await client.fetchUnauthed({ videoId: "xBivT1" }, GET_COMMENTS);
  } catch (e) {
    // Log error or display it to users.
  }
}
```

## Catch HttpError

`ServiceClient` will construct an `HttpError` whenever server finishes response without ok status, typically with 4xx or 5xx error code. See `@selfage/http_error` for more explanation of `HttpError`.

In addition to the try-catch statement above, you can also add a listener to it, which can serve as a global handler of `HttpError`.

```TypeScript
// Suppose we created a `ServiceClient`.
client.on('httpError', (httpError /* HttpError */) =>  {
  // E.g., redirect to home page.
});
```

## Catch unauthenticated error

When server finishes response with 401 error code, i.e., Unauthorized, `ServiceClient` treats it as an unauthenticated error by calling `clear()` on `SessionStorage`.

In addition to the try-catch statement above, you can also add a listener to it, which can serve as a global handler of unauthenticated error.

```TypeScript
// Suppose we created a `ServiceClient`.
client.on('unauthenticated', (/* No args */) =>  {
  // E.g., redirect to home page.
});
```

It's often confused about unauthenticated and unauthorized error, especially because standard Http error codes did confuse them. Unauthenticated means the user cannot be identified, e.g., because of wrong password, whereas unauthorized means the user might be identified but doesn't have enough privilege/permission to access the web page/call the service, e.g., the user can read documents but cannot edit them.

The closest error code to represent unaunthenticated error is 401, although it's named as "Unauthorized". Its [spec](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/401) also says that "authentication is possible" for 401, whereas "re-authenticating will make no difference" for 403. Please keep that in mind when handling unauthenticatd/unauthorized errors on client-side as well as when returning them on server-side. 
